{
  "title": "Elena Aranda",
  "linktitle": "Elena Aranda",
  "first": "Elena",
  "last": "Aranda",
  "organization": "El Centro AMISTAD",
  "pronunciation": "Elena",
  "contact": "Email",
  "honorific": "",
  "pronoun": "Ella",
  "role": "Directora de Programas de acceso, equidad y Educaci\u00f3n",
  "expertise": [
    "Community Organizing",
    "Mental Health",
    "Wellness"
  ],
  "languages": "English, Spanish",
  "email": "ZWxlbmFAZWxjZW50cm9hbWlzdGFkLm9yZw==",
  "images": [],
  "website": "",
  "location": [
    "Boulder"
  ],
  "linkedin": "",
  "phone": "303-443-9899",
  "bio": "Elena naci\u00f3 en Guadalajara, M\u00e9xico, donde complet\u00f3 sus estudios en la Facultad de Psicolog\u00eda.\nSu primer trabajo en los Estados Unidos Salud P\u00fablica del Condado de Boulder en 1988 como psicoterapeuta en el \u00e1rea de Abuso de Sustancias T\u00f3xicas y trabajo comunitario donde proporcion\u00f3 servicios de prevenci\u00f3n a la comunidad latina.\nDespu\u00e9s de esto, Elena continuo su trabajo en Florida y California ofreciendo apoyo en el \u00e1rea de Salud Mental Comunitaria, terapia en violencia dom\u00e9stica, e intervenci\u00f3n sobre primera infancia y la relaci\u00f3n \u201cmama e infante\u201d.\nDe regreso a Boulder, Elena tuvo el privilegio de continuar trabajando para las familias latinas en el Programa Infantil Comunitario (CIP-CIRCULO) en Mental Health Partners como especialista en salud mental infantil brindando servicios psicoterap\u00e9uticos a madres y padres de familia por m\u00e1s 23 a\u00f1os.\nEn su trayectoria como psicoterapeuta a creado modelos de intervenci\u00f3n individual, familiar, grupal y comunitaria tomando en cuenta las barreras de acceso a la salud mental. Su enfoque basado en la fuerza para resaltar y promover la resiliencia comunitaria la ha fortalecido e inspirado para crear m\u00e1s programas que estimulen el crecimiento y bienestar integral de las personas tomando en cuenta los contextos socio-econ\u00f3micos, raciales, culturales y ling\u00fc\u00edsticos.\nEn el a\u00f1o 2002 Elena inicio como voluntaria en El Centro amistad e inicio el primer Programa Compa\u00f1eras y la Cumbre de Mujeres\nActualmente tiene la posici\u00f3n de directora de Programas de Educaci\u00f3n y Equidad. Colabora en el equipo de investigaci\u00f3n del Programa ALMA (Enfocado en mujeres embarazadas y posparto que experimentan s\u00edntomas de depresi\u00f3n) con el Instituto de Bienestar Rene\u00e9 Crown de la Universidad de Colorado en Boulder.\n-----\nElena Aranda Director of Wellness, Health & Education  I have tirelessly worked to promote the wellbeing of women by expanding their access to education and cultural programs while developing a strong sense of political consciousness and social justice. For the past 12 years the Compa\u00f1eras program has hosted an annual women\u2019s summit that has attracted hundreds of women and youth to learn, share and partner with each other in a unique conference that was created by and for Spanish speaking women. I hope to continue to empower women through compassionate leadership, collaboration and respect.    EXPERIENCE  El Centro AMISTAD April 2002 - Present 2222 14th St Boulder, CO 80302  Director of Wellness, Health & Education Programs:  \u2022        Promotoras de Salud. Directs, trains and supervises the group of health promoters to educate and prevent in the Spanish-speaking community diseases such as diabetes, obesity and other diseases caused by the consumption of sugar and junk food. \u2022        C\u00edrculo de Bienestar Emocional. Supervises the coordination of access to mental health support with bilingual bicultural therapist to those who need it. \u2022        Escuela de Madres y Padres. Train mothers and fathers to be emotionally available and present to meet the needs of their children. Train the trainers. \u2022        Compa\u00f1eras. Directs and supervises the weekly activities of women's groups. Facilitate women's leadership for social justice. \u2022        Health Equity and leadership. Implementation of trainings. \u2022        Women's Compa\u00f1eras Summit. Founder and Director. Organize and oversee the Annual Latina Women's Summit. \u2022        Community Leaders in Health Equity. Part of The Colorado Trust Health Equity Initiative. 18-month curriculum focused on health equity education and issue awareness and will be implementing equity trainings in Boulder County.  Mental Health Partners (CIP) C\u00edrculo de la Vida Familiar  January 1996 \u2013 2019 1333 Iris St.  Boulder, CO Bilingual/Bicultural Psychotherapist Worked exclusively with pregnant women and families with children 0-3 years old to offer comprehensive, trauma-informed, culturally sensitive, relationship-based support services. Parent-Infant Therapy \u2022        Assisted in building skills and confidence as a new parent or parenting a toddler. \u2022        Answer questions about the challenges of the family living in a different culture, language and tradition about delivery practices, postpartum care, depresion, stress, etc. \u2022        Assist in building skills and con\ufb01dence as a new parent or parenting a tod         \u2022        Provide safe and healthy home environment to their infants. \u2022        Prevent the abuse and neglect in the family. \u2022        Facilitate groups of empowerment for women in culturally appropriate settings. \u2022        Facilitate DBT groups for moms (Skills focus on parent\u2019s emotional regulation, interpersonal skills and mindfulness with links to infant social-emotional development).  Private Practice  Psychotherapy for Victims of Crime January 1996 \u2013 2016 Boulder CO. \u2022        Provide psychotherapy in Spanish. Intervention curriculum culturally adapted for victims of crime through the Victim Compensation Program focused on the Latino Community. \u2022        DBT skills (Individual therapy and groups). \u2022        EMDR sessions.  Boulder County Safe House May 1997-August 1999 Outreach Woman\u2019s Counselor \u2022        Provided individual counseling for battered women. \u2022        Facilitated support groups. \u2022        Coordinated community education on an as need basis.  Monarch Counseling Services November 1995-August 1997 Longmont, CO \u2022        Facilitator of domestic violence groups  (Treatment Perpetrators Groups).  Mega Vision Production Inc. December 1993-November 1995 Corporate Research Director, Consultant and Trainer Sacramento CA \u2022        Developed manuals for workshops and educational videos. \u2022        Designed culturally and linguistically appropriate courses. \u2022        Conducted family groups retreats. \u2022        Conducted trainings for Human Development.  Western Institute of Therapeutic Studies December 1993-November 1995 Domestic Violence Treatment for Perpetrators Sacramento, CA \u2022        Conducted Counseling, Treatment and Educational groups for men.  Del Norte Clinics August 1993-August 1994 Therapist and Case Manager Olivehurst, CA \u2022        Provided psychosocial counseling and education to both Spanish and English speaking clients for the Prenatal Program. \u2022        Provided Case Management. \u2022        Developed evaluations and assessments in Nutrition and Health Education. \u2022        Formed Support groups and provide individual psychotherapy.    Pathways October 1993-August 1994 Counselor and Community Development Yuba City, CA \u2022        Provided counseling and education in a group setting for substance abusers, their families and co-dependents. \u2022        Introduced prevention programs specifically for the Latino population of Yuba County. \u2022        Facilitate groups of empowerment for women in a culturally appropriate setting.  March of Dimes October 1992-December 1992 Sisters/Compa\u00f1eras Project Apopka, Florida \u2022        Provide training of Prenatal Program for facilitators in the Latino Community.  Temporary Living Center February 1991-February 1992 Apopka, Florida Therapist and Community Outreach Specialist \u2022        Provided training for facilitators in the Latino Community. \u2022        Developed and implemented Well Being programs for pregnant Latina women. \u2022        Provided culturally specific approaches toward pregnant Latina women. \u2022        Provided therapy for the Latino population, families, teenager\u2019s substance abusers and battered Women. \u2022        Organize recreational activities within the community. \u2022        Promoted the formation of cultural affirmation groups.  Boulder County Health Department June 1987-February 1991 Boulder, CO Substance Abuse Counselor \u2022        Provided evaluations, counseling and education in-group and individual settings to substance abusers and their families. \u2022        Organized groups on co-dependency issues for Spanish speaking community.  People\u2019s Clinic (San Juan del Centro) August 1987-February 1991 Boulder, CO \u2022        Provided counseling for the Latino community. Families, teenagers, substance abusers, and battered women.   Longmont Counseling Center April 1990-February 1991 Longmont, CO Counselor for drinking and driving offender \u2022        DUI treatments and classes. Education and Therapy.    People for Unity  January 1990-February 1991 Boulder, CO Co-director \u2022        Co-director of a non-profit organization. \u2022        Promoted a celebration of cultural differences and stand against racism and discrimination. \u2022        Organized a Carnival and oversaw multi-ethnic/multicultural festival.  Boulder County Health Department January 1988-June 1990 Boulder, CO Teen Prevention Program \u2022        Assessed and prevented school drop-out.  \u2022        Organized cultural affirmation seminars.",
  "layout": "person"
}