{
  "contact": "Email",
  "honorific": "",
  "pronoun": "Ella (She/Her/Hers)",
  "bio": "Elena nació en Guadalajara, México, donde completó sus estudios en la Facultad de Psicología.\nSu primer trabajo en los Estados Unidos Salud Pública del Condado de Boulder en 1988 como psicoterapeuta en el área de Abuso de Sustancias Tóxicas y trabajo comunitario donde proporcionó servicios de prevención a la comunidad latina.\nDespués de esto, Elena continuo su trabajo en Florida y California ofreciendo apoyo en el área de Salud Mental Comunitaria, terapia en violencia doméstica, e intervención sobre primera infancia y la relación “mama e infante”.\nDe regreso a Boulder, Elena tuvo el privilegio de continuar trabajando para las familias latinas en el Programa Infantil Comunitario (CIP-CIRCULO) en Mental Health Partners como especialista en salud mental infantil brindando servicios psicoterapéuticos a madres y padres de familia por más 23 años.\nEn su trayectoria como psicoterapeuta a creado modelos de intervención individual, familiar, grupal y comunitaria tomando en cuenta las barreras de acceso a la salud mental. Su enfoque basado en la fuerza para resaltar y promover la resiliencia comunitaria la ha fortalecido e inspirado para crear más programas que estimulen el crecimiento y bienestar integral de las personas tomando en cuenta los contextos socio-económicos, raciales, culturales y lingüísticos.\nEn el año 2002 Elena inicio como voluntaria en El Centro amistad e inicio el primer Programa Compañeras y la Cumbre de Mujeres\nActualmente tiene la posición de directora de Programas de Educación y Equidad. Colabora en el equipo de investigación del Programa ALMA (Enfocado en mujeres embarazadas y posparto que experimentan síntomas de depresión) con el Instituto de Bienestar Reneé Crown de la Universidad de Colorado en Boulder.\n-----\nElena Aranda Director of Wellness, Health & Education  I have tirelessly worked to promote the wellbeing of women by expanding their access to education and cultural programs while developing a strong sense of political consciousness and social justice. For the past 12 years the Compañeras program has hosted an annual women’s summit that has attracted hundreds of women and youth to learn, share and partner with each other in a unique conference that was created by and for Spanish speaking women. I hope to continue to empower women through compassionate leadership, collaboration and respect.    EXPERIENCE  El Centro AMISTAD April 2002 - Present 2222 14th St Boulder, CO 80302  Director of Wellness, Health & Education Programs:  •        Promotoras de Salud. Directs, trains and supervises the group of health promoters to educate and prevent in the Spanish-speaking community diseases such as diabetes, obesity and other diseases caused by the consumption of sugar and junk food. •        Círculo de Bienestar Emocional. Supervises the coordination of access to mental health support with bilingual bicultural therapist to those who need it. •        Escuela de Madres y Padres. Train mothers and fathers to be emotionally available and present to meet the needs of their children. Train the trainers. •        Compañeras. Directs and supervises the weekly activities of women's groups. Facilitate women's leadership for social justice. •        Health Equity and leadership. Implementation of trainings. •        Women's Compañeras Summit. Founder and Director. Organize and oversee the Annual Latina Women's Summit. •        Community Leaders in Health Equity. Part of The Colorado Trust Health Equity Initiative. 18-month curriculum focused on health equity education and issue awareness and will be implementing equity trainings in Boulder County.  Mental Health Partners (CIP) Círculo de la Vida Familiar  January 1996 – 2019 1333 Iris St.  Boulder, CO Bilingual/Bicultural Psychotherapist Worked exclusively with pregnant women and families with children 0-3 years old to offer comprehensive, trauma-informed, culturally sensitive, relationship-based support services. Parent-Infant Therapy •        Assisted in building skills and confidence as a new parent or parenting a toddler. •        Answer questions about the challenges of the family living in a different culture, language and tradition about delivery practices, postpartum care, depresion, stress, etc. •        Assist in building skills and conﬁdence as a new parent or parenting a tod         •        Provide safe and healthy home environment to their infants. •        Prevent the abuse and neglect in the family. •        Facilitate groups of empowerment for women in culturally appropriate settings. •        Facilitate DBT groups for moms (Skills focus on parent’s emotional regulation, interpersonal skills and mindfulness with links to infant social-emotional development).  Private Practice  Psychotherapy for Victims of Crime January 1996 – 2016 Boulder CO. •        Provide psychotherapy in Spanish. Intervention curriculum culturally adapted for victims of crime through the Victim Compensation Program focused on the Latino Community. •        DBT skills (Individual therapy and groups). •        EMDR sessions.  Boulder County Safe House May 1997-August 1999 Outreach Woman’s Counselor •        Provided individual counseling for battered women. •        Facilitated support groups. •        Coordinated community education on an as need basis.  Monarch Counseling Services November 1995-August 1997 Longmont, CO •        Facilitator of domestic violence groups  (Treatment Perpetrators Groups).  Mega Vision Production Inc. December 1993-November 1995 Corporate Research Director, Consultant and Trainer Sacramento CA •        Developed manuals for workshops and educational videos. •        Designed culturally and linguistically appropriate courses. •        Conducted family groups retreats. •        Conducted trainings for Human Development.  Western Institute of Therapeutic Studies December 1993-November 1995 Domestic Violence Treatment for Perpetrators Sacramento, CA •        Conducted Counseling, Treatment and Educational groups for men.  Del Norte Clinics August 1993-August 1994 Therapist and Case Manager Olivehurst, CA •        Provided psychosocial counseling and education to both Spanish and English speaking clients for the Prenatal Program. •        Provided Case Management. •        Developed evaluations and assessments in Nutrition and Health Education. •        Formed Support groups and provide individual psychotherapy.    Pathways October 1993-August 1994 Counselor and Community Development Yuba City, CA •        Provided counseling and education in a group setting for substance abusers, their families and co-dependents. •        Introduced prevention programs specifically for the Latino population of Yuba County. •        Facilitate groups of empowerment for women in a culturally appropriate setting.  March of Dimes October 1992-December 1992 Sisters/Compañeras Project Apopka, Florida •        Provide training of Prenatal Program for facilitators in the Latino Community.  Temporary Living Center February 1991-February 1992 Apopka, Florida Therapist and Community Outreach Specialist •        Provided training for facilitators in the Latino Community. •        Developed and implemented Well Being programs for pregnant Latina women. •        Provided culturally specific approaches toward pregnant Latina women. •        Provided therapy for the Latino population, families, teenager’s substance abusers and battered Women. •        Organize recreational activities within the community. •        Promoted the formation of cultural affirmation groups.  Boulder County Health Department June 1987-February 1991 Boulder, CO Substance Abuse Counselor •        Provided evaluations, counseling and education in-group and individual settings to substance abusers and their families. •        Organized groups on co-dependency issues for Spanish speaking community.  People’s Clinic (San Juan del Centro) August 1987-February 1991 Boulder, CO •        Provided counseling for the Latino community. Families, teenagers, substance abusers, and battered women.   Longmont Counseling Center April 1990-February 1991 Longmont, CO Counselor for drinking and driving offender •        DUI treatments and classes. Education and Therapy.    People for Unity  January 1990-February 1991 Boulder, CO Co-director •        Co-director of a non-profit organization. •        Promoted a celebration of cultural differences and stand against racism and discrimination. •        Organized a Carnival and oversaw multi-ethnic/multicultural festival.  Boulder County Health Department January 1988-June 1990 Boulder, CO Teen Prevention Program •        Assessed and prevented school drop-out.  •        Organized cultural affirmation seminars.",
  "layout": "person",
  "resume": "",
  "phone": "303-443-9899",
  "first": "Elena",
  "expertise": [
    "Community Organizing",
    "Mental Health",
    "Wellness"
  ],
  "organization": "El Centro AMISTAD",
  "pronunciation": "Elena",
  "location": [
    "Boulder"
  ],
  "role": "Directora de Programas de acceso, equidad y Educación",
  "last": "Aranda",
  "title": "Elena Aranda",
  "images": [
    "/img/uploads/photo-2023-08-12-15-28-19-elena-aranda.jpg"
  ],
  "languages": "English, Spanish",
  "website": "",
  "email": "ZWxlbmFAZWxjZW50cm9hbWlzdGFkLm9yZw==",
  "linkedin": "",
  "linktitle": "Elena Aranda"
}